with night approaching temperatures
plummet a shelter an igloo can be built
out of nothing but snow it has to be the
right kind of snow cut from a wind pack
snowdrift the best snow is laid down in
one single storm it's hard and compact
this is an ancient skill which has been
passed down from generation to
generation a boy's first igloo
is never easy he must learn by watching
and copying his father and by making
mistakes
working with snow is a special skill
only with snow that's hard and dry and
the blocks be the right size and shape
the snow blocks will curve upwards each
designed to fit closely to its neighbor
to inner it can build an igloo in 30
minutes in a storm that could mean the
difference between life and death
the final blocks must fit well or the
whole igloo could collapse the snow
house is a great design Dale I can shine
through but the cold wind is kept out
coming up finally Andrew shows a pack
how to cut overhangs between the layers
of blocks so that any melting snow will
drip away once a stove is going inside
it can be really warm several degrees
above freezing